okay now that we've reviewed how to
build massive biceps to burst the
sleeves of your t-shirt let's look at
balancing out that with massive triceps
we're going to start with the close grip
bench press para mating up the weight
with each of five sets ten reps
ten reps then eight then six then six
hey you want mass right alright then the
next exercise is the bench dip where
we'll do three sets of perfectly
executed reps ten each then we'll
demonstrate the seated EZ bar French
press three sets pair meeting down each
set with six reps at first then eight
then ten push yourself start heavy
whenever you pyramid down as you will
with the fourth exercise the rope press
down where we'll do three sets at eight
reps then 10 then 10 reps again or until
failure
the close grip bench press is an
excellent mass building compound
exercise for the beginning of your
triceps workout move through these reps
when you're fresh and you can handle a
little bit more weight before your
triceps are fatigued with isolation
exercises the key here is to slide your
hands inward a bit and grip the bar with
your hands narrower than shoulder width
apart find a comfortable spot where you
can balance the bar with certainty and
not overcompensate with the rest of your
body begin by lying on your benchpress
station with your head shoulders and
gluts resting on the bench and a slight
arch in your lumbar spine the barbell
should be racked above you and an
accessible height directly above your
head if you don't have access to a rack
have your spotter give you a lift off
grabbing the bar palms up press it up to
release it and lock your arms directly
above your chest this is your starting
position inhale slightly more than usual
and hold your breath as you lower the
bar to your chest as you come close to
touching your pecs reverse direction
decisively and press the bar back up do
not stop or pause in the bottom position
because that will bring in your pecs
more than you want but that doesn't mean
you bounce off your chest either push
steadily upward and as you reach the top
exhale and lock your elbows pause a
moment at the extended position before
beginning your next rep continue at a
moderate rate of speed remembering not
to arch your back with each lift if you
find yourself arching lighten up on your
weights with strip form keeping your
elbows close to your sides during both
ascent and descent this will be a great
mass builder for you so watch the elbows
the back and the width of your grip and
you'll be on your way
the bench dip is one of the few compound
exercises that's known for its pump as
much as it's gross stimulation
your pecs and anterior deltoids will
contract strongly at the beginning of
the up phase but if you keep your elbows
pointed back and close to your body your
triceps will be doing the majority of
the work start by placing two benches
parallel to each other about two and a
half or three feet apart sit like this
on the middle of one bench placing your
hands by your hips fingers cupping the
edge of the bench and your elbows
pointing directly rearward now support
your body and straight arms and place
your feet on to the other bench inhale
as you bend your elbows to slowly lower
your upper body between the benches
until you feel a stretch in your triceps
and shoulders after you reach the bottom
position hold your breath and push
yourself upward until your arms are
fully extended you can lock your elbows
if you want here as long as you don't
overextend exhale at this position when
you get to the top pause for a second
and slowly lower yourself and work
methodically through your reps you want
to keep your eyes and focus directly
forward throughout this exercise some
performance tips on this if you're a
beginner or if you've never done this
exercise before keep your range of
motion short before gradually increasing
the depth of your dip work into it
for those who want extra resistance as
their practice develops have a partner
place a weight plate on your thighs but
if you're going to double or triple up
on plates make sure that your partner
hangs on to them to prevent them from
slipping and helps take them off at the
end of each set
here we've got another excellent triceps
movement and I'm going to give you a
rule to emblazon into your mind
throughout this exercise keep your elbow
stationary and pointed toward the
ceiling at all times straddle your
exercise bench with your feet flat on
the floor grasping your barbell keep
your torso erect and your eyes looking
directly forward bend your elbows and
raise your arms overhead
allowing your forearm and the bar to
hang down behind your head so your
elbows point where were you listening
that's right
directly upward toward the ceiling now
inhale slightly more than usual hold
that breath during the up phase and
keeping your upper arm stationary press
the bar upward until your arms are fully
extended your little fingers should
point forward ensuring that you are
using a neutral grip remember not to
round your back or lean forward which
decreases the impact of the exercise as
well as who puts excessive stress on
your vertebra and shoulder joints when
you hit the peak point in the movement
lock your arms for an even stronger
contraction of the triceps so always be
careful not to overextend your joints
and have I mentioned this keep your
elbows pointed toward the ceiling the
whole time
you
now let's head back to the gym and see
how the rope press down is done with a
rope press down you can really pack on
the mask if you isolate your triceps
with immaculate form stand in front of a
high cable pulley and grasp the rope
attachment with a neutral or palms and
grip your feet should be parallel or if
you want one foot can be slightly in
front of the other
lean forward from the waist to more than
about 10 to 15 degrees and position your
elbows slightly in front of your body
with your hands at approximately
shoulder height take note the slight
forward position of your elbows is key
to this exercise keeping your elbows at
your sides and your upper arms and torso
motionless inhale slightly more than
usual and hold your breath as you push
down with your hands if you want to get
a little extra contraction out of your
triceps twist your palms fully downward
as you execute the press down you'll
feel the difference especially as you
pass the 90 degree position push those
palms down pulling the ropes apart
slightly as you reach the bottom
straighten your arms fully then exhale
as you return to the initial position
under control where your forearms are
just past parallel to the floor keep a
firm grip through the movement so that
your hands and forearms remain in a
straight line at all times to pull
maximum efficiency here remember to
maintain a motionless torso and
motionless upper arm position at all
times during the execution both on the
push down and the ascent back up
you